# Crypto Zombies Intro

## 6. array & state variables

`State variables` are stored permanently in the blockchain. So creating a dynamic array of structs like this can be useful for storing structured data in your contract, kind of like a database.

You can declare an array as public, and Solidity will automatically create a getter method for it. The syntax looks like:

`Person[] public people;`

Other contracts would then be able to read from, but not write to, this array. So this is a useful pattern for storing public data in your contract.\

Examples of fixed and dynamic arrays. Solidity has 2 types of arrays, fixed and dynamic.

```js
// Array with a fixed length of 2 elements:
uint[2] fixedArray;
// another fixed Array, can contain 5 strings:
string[5] stringArray;
// a dynamic Array - has no fixed size, can keep growing:
uint[] dynamicArray;
```

## 3. state variables & uint in Solidity

`State variables` are permanently stored in contract storage. They are written to the Ethereum blockchain. Hence, it works like storing value in the data base.

```js
contract Example {
  // This will be stored permanently in the blockchain
  uint myUnsignedInteger = 100;
}
```

In Solidity, uint is actually an alias for uint256, a 256-bit unsigned integer. You can declare uints with less bits — uint8, uint16, uint32, etc.. But in general you want to simply use uint except in specific cases.

## 1. Zombie DNA

Zombie DNA is a 16-digit integer.

`8356281049284737`

First 2 digits represents 7 types of head. Get the head type

**Answer**

First 2 integers are 83. We can use `the reminder operator or modulo operator (%)`. `83 % 7 + 1 = 7`, hence it's type 7.

`83 % 7` is 6. Hence 6 is the reminder.

"modulo" is an operator. For instance, we might say "19 and 64 are congruent modulo 5".

"modulus" is a noun. It describes the 5 in "modulo 5". We might say "the modulus is 5".
